The Château d'Hérouville is a French château of the 18th century (1740) located in the village of Hérouville, in the Val d'Oise département of France, near Paris. The château was built in 1740 by Gaudot, an architect of the school of Rome, from the remains of an earlier 16th-century château.[1] In the 19th century, it was used as a courier relay station (between Versailles and Beauvais) and stabled a hundred horses.[2][3]

Several accounts, including one by the BBC, suggest that in the mid-19th Century, composer Frédéric Chopin conducted his love affair with the writer George Sand there.[4] The château was painted by Vincent van Gogh, who is buried nearby.[5] The estate also doubled as a recording studio, producing now iconic hit records throughout the 1970s.

The château comprises two wings, plus a number of outbuildings.[6] It has 30 rooms, a swimming pool and a tennis court and is set in 1,7 hectares of parkland.[5] An octagonal stone drinking trough in the courtyard is a protected historical monument.[6]

Now cut forward to the beginning of the 1960s, where the story of the studio begins. The castle’s new owner, film composer Michel Magne, decided to buy the place along with a friend with the dream of transforming it into their personal workspace.

To finance the castle’s restoration, Michel worked tirelessly on the production of loads of original film scores such as Fantômas, and Les Tontons Flingueurs among several other Georges Lautner-directed films as well. A few years later, in 1969, he finally had the funds to begin the restoration, and he arranged to also have a recording studio built in the right wing of the castle at the same time.

The idea was to use this space for collaborating with other musicians and composers while still having all the comforts you’d find at home. The equipment in the first studio was pretty basic: just a four-track Ampex tape recorder and an old console for radio broadcasting. Obviously, he needed a bit more than that for his work, so Michel Magne decided to finance the rest of his gear by transforming what was supposed to be a kind of "home studio" into a professional studio for musicians.

It’s no wonder that it used to be a resort, because even outside the studio, the Château d’Hérouville is something of a dream space, boasting 10 bedrooms available for work and lodging, a pool, a tennis court, and expansive grounds of parkland. At the time in France, a studio that boasted this level of luxury was completely revolutionary.


In the ‘50s and ‘60s in France, recording an album was a bit of a hassle. Studios at the time were extremely bureaucratic enterprises that insisted not only on countless forms and memos, but also on formality—to the point that neck ties were required.

Given that alternative, it’s almost immediately clear why the much more relaxed Château d’Hérouville became a hotspot for artists. Famous early visitors include the American group Canned Heat and Gong, who recorded their album Camembert Electrique there in 1971.

